Now that you have your own cluster running locally using minikube or on AWS using kops,
now I can show you how building containers works, so you can run your own containers, own kubernetes.
So, this section will be about building your own app in Docker.
To build containers, you can use Docker engine, you can download Docker engine for Windows, Mac, and Linux.
They are three different URLs, they are also different ways to set up Docker on your whole system.
All installations are pretty easy.
You just download the software, you install it, and can use Docker. You can use that or you can use my Vagrant "devops-box", which comes with Docker installed.
On my GitHub, I have a "devops-box", which is a Vagrant box, which you can use, which will automatically install Docker for you.
In the demos, I will always use an "ubuntu-xenial" box, setup with vagrant.
I showed you how to do this in the AWS operation demos.
If you haven't followed those, but you would like to run an "ubuntu-xenial" box, then have a look at those demos.
The "devops-box" is also going to be "ubuntu-xenial", and you can find the URL for the "devops-box" in the procedure document.
So, whether you use a plane ubuntu or "devops-box", it is almost the same.
Also, you don't have to use Vagrant, Docker is available for Windows, Mac, and for Linux.
So, you can use it with whatever operating system you want.
Let's talk about Dockerizing a simple apps.
I'm going to show you how to dockerize a simple nodeJS app, but you can write any application you want.
So, dockerizing a simple nodeJS app only needs a few files:
You need a Docker file, every container you want to build needs a Docker for let's just go over the few lines that are in this Docker file.
First line, "FROM node: 4.6", we are saying our image is going to be based on the node image.
This image is publicly available.
Docker will download version 4.6 from this official node image. Our work directory is going to be "/app".
In this Linux environment that comes from nodes, we are going to create that directory "/app".
And the current files, in this current directory are going to be copied to "/app".
I will show you the auto files in just a moment.
It is going to be the javascript files for nodeJS, are going to be copies to this "/app" directory.
To prepare this darker image. We are going to execute some commands.
You can do that using the run command.
So this is going to run "npm install". "npm install" is a command that is going to install all the dependencies,
so that we bundle the dependencies together with this node image. So we will have the node image
with the Linux operating system and all the dependencies, and then we are going to add all dependencies that this app needs.
It is going to expose a port in this case port 3000.
And when the container itself starts, then it is going to run "npm start".
Let's have a look at the other files in the directory, that will then be copied to this "/app" folder.
The first one is, "index.js" very simple nodeJS app, only a few lines.
It is going to load all the dependencies that it needs to start a server, and then when it gets a hit on "/",
the main page is just going to say, "Hello World!".
This app is going to listen on port 3000 and when it starts, it is going to print to the console.
The example app is listening that host and port.
Then, a nodeJS typically has a "package.json" file and in this "package.json" file,
we are going to define the dependencies, it is basically the metadata of this app.
So, our app has a name, "myapp", it has a version, you can choose whatever version you want,
it is a private app, you are not going to put it in a public repository,
it has scripts, this is just going to define what happens if you do "npm start".
So, if you take a look at the docker file, we see "npm start", then "node.index.js" is going to be executed.
It depends on the engine, "node: '^4.6.1" and it has one dependency, the dependency is "express".
So, when we do, "npm install", then it is going to install express "/app" add directory.
So, we have a "/app" directory with "index.js", "package.json". And "npm install" is going to run,
when we are going to build this docker container is going to install the dependencies in "/app".
You will see this working, when I do this in a shell.
You just need to understand what these three files mean. The flow itself of building the image,
you will clearly see, when we run the Docker build command. So, to this project, Docker build can be used.
Docker build can be executed manually or "CI/CD" software like "jenkins"
to listen for any changes for your project and automatically exclude build.
We are going to do it manually for now.
Later on you can automate this easily. To build the Docker image from the previous line,
this is what we are going to do, you are going to "CD" to the "docker-demo". This "docker-demo" is also in the git repository on my GitHub,
so you can clone this repository or you can download it as a zip file, again procedure document.
You will see the URL as well, in the next demo.
Here, we have a Dockerfile, "index.js" and "package.json", if you want to build then this image using the definition in this Dockerfile,
and there's "docker build" that is going to start the process.
After the docker build process, you have built an image that can run NodeJS app.
And that build process that I just explained, that's what I'm going to show you in the next demo.